.\" zipet-snippets(5) — snippet and workflow TOML file format
.
.TH ZIPET\-SNIPPETS 5 "2024-03-18" "zipet 0.1.0" "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
zipet\-snippets \- format of zipet snippet and workflow TOML files
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Snippets and workflows are stored as TOML files in the
.I snippets/
and
.I workflows/
directories under the zipet configuration root (typically
.IR ~/.config/zipet/ ).
Files are organized by namespace — each
.I <namespace>.toml
file can contain multiple snippets or workflows.
.
.SH SNIPPET FORMAT
Each snippet is defined as a table under
.BR [snippets.<name>] .
.
.SS Required keys
.TP
.B cmd \fR(string)
The command to execute. May contain
.B {{param}}
placeholders that are resolved at runtime.
.
.SS Optional keys
.TP
.B desc \fR(string)
A human-readable description of the snippet.
.TP
.B tags \fR(array of strings)
Tags for categorization and filtering.
.
.SS Parameters
Parameters are defined in a sub-table
.BR [snippets.<name>.params.<param>] .
Each parameter supports the following keys:
.TP
.B prompt \fR(string)
Text displayed when prompting the user for a value.
.TP
.B default \fR(string)
Default value if the user presses Enter without typing.
.TP
.B options \fR(array of strings)
A fixed list of choices presented as a numbered menu.
.TP
.B command \fR(string)
A shell command whose output lines become the list of choices.
.
.SH WORKFLOW FORMAT
Workflows are stored in
.I workflows/<namespace>.toml
and defined under
.BR [workflows.<name>] .
.
.SS Keys
.TP
.B desc \fR(string)
Description of the workflow.
.TP
.B tags \fR(array of strings)
Tags for filtering.
.TP
.B steps \fR(array of tables)
Ordered list of steps. Each step has:
.RS
.TP
.B name \fR(string)
Step identifier.
.TP
.B cmd \fR(string, optional)
Inline command to execute.
.TP
.B snippet \fR(string, optional)
Name of an existing snippet to run instead of an inline command.
.TP
.B on_fail \fR(string, optional)
Failure policy:
.BR stop " (default), " continue ", or " skip_rest .
.RE
.
.SS Workflow parameters
Parameters are defined under
.BR [workflows.<name>.params.<param>]
and use the same schema as snippet parameters.
.
.SS Inter-step variables
.TP
.B {{prev_stdout}}
Standard output of the previous step.
.TP
.B {{prev_exit}}
Exit code of the previous step.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Snippet file
.nf
# ~/.config/zipet/snippets/docker.toml

[snippets.docker\-build]
desc = "Build a Docker image"
tags = ["docker", "build"]
cmd = "docker build \-t {{image}}:{{tag}} ."

[snippets.docker\-build.params]
image = { prompt = "Image name", default = "myapp" }
tag   = { prompt = "Tag",        default = "latest" }

[snippets.docker\-ps]
desc = "List running containers"
tags = ["docker"]
cmd = "docker ps \-\-format 'table {{.Names}}\\t{{.Status}}\\t{{.Ports}}'"
.fi
.
.SS Snippet with dynamic options
.nf
[snippets.git\-checkout]
desc = "Switch git branch"
tags = ["git"]
cmd = "git checkout {{branch}}"

[snippets.git\-checkout.params]
branch = { prompt = "Branch", command = "git branch \-\-format='%(refname:short)'" }
.fi
.
.SS Workflow file
.nf
# ~/.config/zipet/workflows/general.toml

[workflows.deploy\-all]
desc = "Full deployment pipeline"
tags = ["deploy", "ci"]

[[workflows.deploy\-all.steps]]
name = "test"
cmd = "make test"
on_fail = "stop"

[[workflows.deploy\-all.steps]]
name = "build"
snippet = "docker\-build"
on_fail = "stop"

[[workflows.deploy\-all.steps]]
name = "push"
cmd = "docker push {{image}}:{{tag}}"
on_fail = "stop"

[workflows.deploy\-all.params]
image = { prompt = "Image name", default = "myapp" }
tag   = { prompt = "Tag",        default = "latest" }
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zipet (1),
.BR zipet\-workflow (1),
.BR zipet.toml (5),
.BR toml (5)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Luis Garcia
