.\" zipet-pack(1) — pack management
.
.TH ZIPET\-PACK 1 "2024-03-18" "zipet 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
zipet\-pack \- browse, install, create, and manage snippet packs
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zipet pack
.I subcommand
.RI [ arguments ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Packs are shareable collections of snippets and workflows distributed as
TOML files. They can be installed from the built-in registry, a local file
path, or a remote URL.
.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B ls\fR, \fBlist
List all available packs from the registry. Installed packs are marked
with a checkmark.
.TP
.BI "install " "name|file|url" " [--workspace=WS]"
Install a pack. The
.I source
can be:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
A built-in pack name (e.g.,
.BR pentesting ", " devops ).
.IP \(bu 2
A local TOML file path (e.g.,
.IR ./my\-snippets.toml ).
.IP \(bu 2
A remote URL (e.g.,
.IR https://example.com/pack.toml ).
.RE
.IP
Use
.BI \-\-workspace= WS
to install the pack into a specific workspace instead of globally.
.TP
.BI "uninstall " "name"
.TQ
.BI "rm " "name"
Remove an installed pack and all its snippets from the store.
.TP
.BI "create " "name" " [--namespace=NS]"
Create a new pack TOML file from existing snippets. If
.BI \-\-namespace= NS
is given, only snippets in that namespace are included.
.TP
.BI "info " "name"
Display metadata about a pack: author, category, description,
snippet count, and workflow count.
.
.SH BUILT-IN PACKS
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Pack;Description
_
pentesting;Nmap, gobuster, sqlmap, hydra, hashcat...
devops;Docker, Kubernetes, deployment, monitoring
git\-power;Advanced Git workflows and shortcuts
sysadmin;Linux system administration essentials
web\-dev;HTTP testing, API debugging, JWT, encoding
.TE
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Browse available packs
zipet pack ls

# Install a built-in pack
zipet pack install pentesting

# Install into a workspace
zipet pack install devops \-\-workspace=myproject

# Install from a URL
zipet pack install https://example.com/team\-pack.toml

# Create a pack from your snippets
zipet pack create my\-tools \-\-namespace=general

# View details
zipet pack info pentesting

# Remove
zipet pack uninstall devops
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zipet (1),
.BR zipet\-workspace (1),
.BR zipet\-snippets (5)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Luis Garcia
