.\" zipet(1) — command snippet manager
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Luis Garcia
.\" Licensed under MIT
.
.TH ZIPET 1 "2024-03-18" "zipet 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
zipet \- a blazing-fast command snippet manager with TUI, workflows, packs, and fuzzy search
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zipet
.RB [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ arguments ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zipet
saves, organizes, and executes shell commands (snippets) with support for
parameterized templates, workflows, fuzzy search, installable packs, and
workspaces. All data is stored as human-readable TOML files.
.PP
When invoked without arguments,
.B zipet
launches an interactive terminal user interface (TUI) with vim-style keybindings.
When invoked with an unknown command, it is treated as an implicit
.B run
query with fuzzy search.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.SS "General"
.TP
.B init
Initialize the configuration directory at
.IR ~/.config/zipet/ .
Creates default config, snippet directory, workflow directory, and example snippets.
.TP
.B help\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show a summary of available commands.
.TP
.B version\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR, \fB\-v
Print the version string.
.
.SS "Snippet Management"
.TP
.BI "add " "[cmd]"
Add a new snippet interactively. If
.I cmd
is given, use it as the command text. Otherwise prompt for it.
.TP
.B add \-\-last
Capture the last command executed in the current shell and save it as a snippet.
.TP
.BI "run " "query"
Fuzzy-search snippets matching
.I query
and execute the result.
If there is exactly one match, it runs immediately.
If there are multiple, a numbered list is shown for selection.
An exact name match bypasses fuzzy search.
.TP
.BI "edit " "name"
Open the TOML file containing snippet
.I name
in
.BR $EDITOR .
.TP
.BI "rm " "name"
Delete the snippet called
.IR name .
.TP
.BI "ls " "[--tags=TAG]"
List all snippets. Optionally filter by
.IR TAG .
.TP
.B tags
List all tags with their snippet counts.
.
.SS "Workflow Management"
See
.BR zipet\-workflow (1)
for full details.
.TP
.B workflow add
.TQ
.B wf add
Create a new workflow interactively.
.TP
.BI "workflow run " "name"
Execute a workflow.
.TP
.B workflow ls
List all workflows.
.TP
.BI "workflow show " "name"
Display workflow steps and parameters.
.TP
.BI "workflow rm " "name"
Delete a workflow.
.TP
.BI "workflow edit " "name"
Edit a workflow in
.BR $EDITOR .
.
.SS "Parallel Execution"
.TP
.BI "parallel " "name1 name2 ..." " [-- key=val ...]"
.TQ
.BI "par " "name1 name2 ..." " [-- key=val ...]"
Run multiple snippets and/or workflows simultaneously using threads.
Parameter overrides can be supplied after
.BR \-\- .
Results display exit codes, duration, stdout, and stderr for each item.
.
.SS "Pack Management"
See
.BR zipet\-pack (1)
for full details.
.TP
.B pack ls
List available packs and their install status.
.TP
.BI "pack install " "name|file|url" " [--workspace=WS]"
Install a pack from the built-in registry, a local TOML file, or a URL.
.TP
.BI "pack uninstall " "name"
Remove an installed pack and its snippets.
.TP
.BI "pack create " "name" " [--namespace=NS]"
Create a distributable pack from existing snippets.
.TP
.BI "pack info " "name"
Show details about a pack.
.
.SS "Workspace Management"
See
.BR zipet\-workspace (1)
for full details.
.TP
.BI "workspace create " "name" " [--path=DIR]"
.TQ
.BI "ws create " "name" " [--path=DIR]"
Create a new workspace, optionally linked to a project directory.
.TP
.BI "workspace use " "name"
.TQ
.BI "ws use " "name"
Switch to a workspace. Use
.B \-\-global
to return to the global workspace.
.TP
.B workspace ls
List all workspaces.
.TP
.B workspace current
Show the currently active workspace.
.TP
.BI "workspace rm " "name"
Delete a workspace.
.
.SS "Import / Export"
.TP
.BI "export " "[--json]"
Export all snippets to stdout in TOML format (default) or JSON.
.TP
.BI "import " "file|url"
Import snippets from a local TOML file or a URL.
Duplicate snippets are automatically detected and skipped.
.
.SS "Shell Integration"
.TP
.BI "shell " "bash|zsh|fish"
Output shell integration code to be evaluated in the user's shell config.
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Bash (~/.bashrc)
eval "$(zipet shell bash)"

# Zsh (~/.zshrc)
eval "$(zipet shell zsh)"

# Fish (~/.config/fish/config.fish)
zipet shell fish | source
.fi
.RE
.PP
Once loaded, the following shortcuts are available:
.TP
.B Ctrl\-S
Open the snippet picker and insert the selected command into the command line.
.TP
.B Ctrl\-X Ctrl\-S
Save the current command line as a snippet (bash/zsh only).
.
.SH TUI KEYBINDINGS
When
.B zipet
is launched without arguments, the TUI is displayed. Navigation uses
vim-style keys:
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Key;Action
_
j / k;Navigate down / up
gg / G;Jump to first / last item
Ctrl\-D / Ctrl\-U;Page down / up
/;Focus search bar
Enter;Run selected snippet
a;Add new snippet (inline form)
w;Create new workflow (inline wizard)
e;Edit snippet in $EDITOR
d;Delete (with confirmation)
y;Yank command to clipboard
p;Paste from clipboard
o;Open TOML file in editor
i;Full info panel
Space;Toggle preview pane
t;Filter by tag
W;Workspace picker
P;Pack browser
?;Toggle help sidebar
:q;Quit
:w;Save all
:wq;Save & quit
:tags;Tag picker
:export;Export snippets
:ws;Workspace picker
:packs;Pack browser
.TE
.
.SH TEMPLATES
Snippets support parameterized placeholders using the
.B {{param}}
syntax. Parameters are prompted at execution time.
.PP
.SS "Parameter types"
.TP
.B prompt + default
Simple text input with a default value.
.TP
.B options
Predefined list of values — user picks from a numbered menu.
.TP
.B command
Dynamic options populated by running a shell command.
.
.SS "Built-in variables"
The following variables are resolved automatically:
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Variable;Value
_
{{user}};Current username
{{hostname}};Machine hostname
{{cwd}};Current working directory
{{date}};Today's date (YYYY\-MM\-DD)
{{datetime}};ISO 8601 datetime
{{timestamp}};Unix timestamp
{{os}};Operating system
{{arch}};CPU architecture
{{git_branch}};Current git branch
{{git_sha}};Short git commit SHA
{{git_root}};Git repository root path
{{clipboard}};Clipboard contents (X11/Wayland/macOS)
.TE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, zipet stores its configuration under
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/zipet/ .
Defaults to
.IR ~/.config/zipet/ .
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used by
.B edit
and
.B workflow edit
commands.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/config.toml
Global configuration file. See
.BR zipet.toml (5).
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/snippets/
Directory containing snippet TOML files organized by namespace.
See
.BR zipet\-snippets (5).
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/workflows/
Workflow definition files.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/packs/
Installed pack metadata and built-in pack registry.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/workspaces/
Workspace directories, each with its own snippets and workflows.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/active_workspace
File containing the name of the currently active workspace.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Initialize and see example snippets
zipet init
zipet ls

# Add a parameterized snippet
zipet add "docker build \-t {{image}}:{{tag}} ."

# Fuzzy search and run
zipet run docker
zipet dk              # implicit run

# Export and share
zipet export > team\-snippets.toml
zipet import https://example.com/snippets.toml

# Parallel execution
zipet parallel check\-disk check\-mem check\-net
zipet par deploy\-api deploy\-web \-\- env=prod
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zipet\-workflow (1),
.BR zipet\-pack (1),
.BR zipet\-workspace (1),
.BR zipet\-snippets (5),
.BR zipet.toml (5)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Luis Garcia
.UR https://github.com/Luisgarcav/zipet
.UE
.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
