.\" zipet-workspace(1) — workspace management
.
.TH ZIPET\-WORKSPACE 1 "2024-03-18" "zipet 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
zipet\-workspace \- organize snippets by project, context, or environment
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zipet workspace
.I subcommand
.RI [ arguments ]
.br
.B zipet ws
.I subcommand
.RI [ arguments ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Workspaces provide isolated collections of snippets and workflows.
Each workspace has its own snippet and workflow directories under
.IR ~/.config/zipet/workspaces/<name>/ .
.PP
.B ws
is an alias for
.BR workspace .
.PP
A special
.B global
workspace exists by default and is used when no workspace is active.
.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.BI "create " "name" " [--path=DIR]"
Create a new workspace called
.IR name .
If
.BI \-\-path= DIR
is given, the workspace is linked to that project directory.
.TP
.BI "use " "name"
Switch to the workspace called
.IR name .
All subsequent snippet operations (add, ls, run, etc.) will use this
workspace's snippets.
.TP
.B use \-\-global
Switch back to the global workspace.
.TP
.B ls
List all workspaces. The currently active workspace is highlighted.
.TP
.B current
Print the name of the currently active workspace.
.TP
.BI "rm " "name"
Delete the workspace called
.I name
and all its snippets and workflows.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/workspaces/<name>/
Root directory for a workspace.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/workspaces/<name>/workspace.toml
Workspace metadata (linked path, etc.).
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/workspaces/<name>/snippets/
Snippets belonging to this workspace.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/workspaces/<name>/workflows/
Workflows belonging to this workspace.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zipet/active_workspace
File containing the name of the currently active workspace.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Create a workspace linked to a project
zipet workspace create backend \-\-path=/home/user/projects/api

# Switch to it
zipet ws use backend

# Check which workspace is active
zipet ws current

# List all workspaces
zipet ws ls

# Return to global
zipet ws use \-\-global

# Delete a workspace
zipet ws rm backend
.fi
.
.SH TUI ACCESS
In the TUI, press
.B W
or type
.B :ws
to open the workspace picker.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zipet (1),
.BR zipet\-pack (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Luis Garcia
