.\" zipet-workflow(1) — workflow management
.
.TH ZIPET\-WORKFLOW 1 "2024-03-18" "zipet 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
zipet\-workflow \- create, run, and manage multi-step command pipelines
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zipet workflow
.I subcommand
.RI [ arguments ]
.br
.B zipet wf
.I subcommand
.RI [ arguments ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Workflows chain multiple commands and snippet references into sequential
pipelines with error handling and data passing between steps.
.PP
.B wf
is an alias for
.BR workflow .
.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B add
Create a new workflow interactively. The wizard prompts for a name,
description, tags, namespace, and then iteratively collects steps.
Each step can be an inline command or a reference to an existing snippet.
A failure policy
.RB ( stop ", " continue ", " skip_rest )
is set per step.
.TP
.BI "run " "name"
Execute the workflow called
.IR name .
Steps run sequentially. The special variables
.B {{prev_stdout}}
and
.B {{prev_exit}}
are available in each step to reference the output and exit code of the
previous step. Workflow-level parameters are prompted once and shared across
all steps.
.TP
.B ls
List all workflows with their descriptions and step summaries.
.TP
.BI "show " "name"
Display full details of the workflow
.IR name ,
including all steps, their commands or snippet references, failure policies,
and parameters.
.TP
.BI "rm " "name"
Delete the workflow called
.IR name .
.TP
.BI "edit " "name"
Open the TOML file containing the workflow in
.BR $EDITOR .
.
.SH WORKFLOW FEATURES
.TP
.B Step chaining
Each step can be an inline command or a reference to an existing snippet.
.TP
.B Inter-step data
Use
.B {{prev_stdout}}
to access the standard output of the previous step, and
.B {{prev_exit}}
for its exit code.
.TP
.B Failure policies
Each step has an
.B on_fail
policy:
.RS
.TP
.B stop
Abort the workflow immediately (default).
.TP
.B continue
Log the error and proceed to the next step.
.TP
.B skip_rest
Skip all remaining steps but don't mark the workflow as failed.
.RE
.TP
.B Workflow-level params
Parameters detected across all steps are prompted once at the start.
.TP
.B Edit in $EDITOR
Use
.B zipet wf edit <name>
to modify the raw TOML definition.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Create a workflow interactively
zipet workflow add

# Run a workflow
zipet wf run deploy\-all

# List all workflows
zipet wf ls

# Inspect a workflow
zipet wf show deploy\-all

# Edit in your editor
zipet wf edit deploy\-all

# Delete
zipet wf rm deploy\-all
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zipet (1),
.BR zipet\-snippets (5)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Luis Garcia
